Added new kb article extend-busyindicator-coverage-flyout-net-maui (#1047)
telerik/maui-docs: knowledge-base/extend-busyindicator-coverage-flyout-net-maui.md

---
title: Covering the Flyout Menu with BusyIndicator in .NET MAUI
description: Learn how to extend the coverage of BusyIndicator to include the Flyout menu in .NET MAUI applications.
type: how-to
page_title: How to Extend BusyIndicator Coverage to the Flyout Menu in .NET MAUI
slug: extend-busyindicator-coverage-flyout-net-maui
tags: busyindicator, .net maui, shell, flyout, overlay
res_type: kb
ticketid: 1674906
---

## Description

> When implementing the [BusyIndicator for .NET MAUI](https://docs.telerik.com/devtools/maui/controls/busyindicator), it's observed that the indicator covers only the view area and not the Flyout menu. This knowledge base article also answers the following questions:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
When implementing the [BusyIndicator for .NET MAUI](https://docs.telerik.com/devtools/maui/controls/busyindicator), the indicator covers only the view area and not the Flyout menu. How can I cover the entire Flyout menu?

This knowledge base article also answers the following questions:
```

- How to cover the Flyout menu with BusyIndicator in .NET MAUI Shell?
- How to ensure BusyIndicator visibility over the entire application including the Flyout in .NET MAUI?
- How to implement an overlay for the Flyout menu in .NET MAUI?

## Environment

<table>
<tbody>
<tr>
<td>Product</td>
<td>BusyIndicator for .NET MAUI</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>Version</td>
<td>6.7.0</td>
</tr>
</tbody>
</table>

## Solution

> To cover the Flyout area of the Microsoft Shell along with the application's content page using BusyIndicator, you need to define a separate BusyIndicator or an overlay specifically for the Flyout. The Flyout area is not part of the application's main visual tree but is a separate page, requiring its own BusyIndicator implementation.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To cover the Flyout area of the Microsoft Shell along with the application's content page using BusyIndicator, define a separate BusyIndicator or an overlay specifically for the Flyout. The Flyout area is not part of the application's main visual tree but a separate page requiring its own BusyIndicator implementation.
```

> 1. **Override the FlyoutContent:** Access your Shell definition and override the `FlyoutContent` to include a BusyIndicator. This allows you to show the BusyIndicator or an overlay specifically for the Flyout menu.

Reviewer: Avoid using lists with a single step.
```suggestion
To achieve this, access your Shell definition and override the `FlyoutContent` to include a BusyIndicator. This allows you to show the BusyIndicator or an overlay specifically for the Flyout menu.
```

                <CollectionView.ItemTemplate>
                    <DataTemplate>
                        <Grid ColumnDefinitions="0.2*,0.8*">
                            <Image Source="{Binding Icon}"
                                   Margin="5"
                                   HeightRequest="45" />
                            <Label Grid.Column="1"
                                   Text="{Binding Title}"
                                   VerticalTextAlignment="Center" />
                        </Grid>
                    </DataTemplate>
                </CollectionView.ItemTemplate>
            </CollectionView>

            <telerik:RadBusyIndicator x:Name="GlobalBusyIndicator"
                                      IsVisible="False"
                                      AnimationContentHeightRequest="100"
                                      AnimationContentWidthRequest="100"
                                      AnimationContentColor="{DynamicResource PrimaryColor}"
                                      BackgroundColor="#CCDCDCDC"/>
        </Grid>
    </Shell.FlyoutContent>
</Shell>
```

### Additional Information

> - Understanding the architecture of .NET MAUI Shell, including the Flyout menu, is crucial for implementing this solution. For more details, refer to the [.NET MAUI Shell flyout documentation](https://learn.microsoft.com/en-us/dotnet/maui/fundamentals/shell/flyout?view=net-maui-9.0).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Understanding the architecture of the .NET MAUI Shell, including the Flyout menu, is crucial for implementing this solution. For more details, refer to the [.NET MAUI Shell flyout documentation](https://learn.microsoft.com/en-us/dotnet/maui/fundamentals/shell/flyout?view=net-maui-9.0).
```
